We're now going to show you what a KDE desktop would look like running on CentOS 7.
Most people running CentOS are using the GNOME desktop,
but we'll show you what it looks like for KDE,
and it would not look that much different on other distributions,
just like the GNOME desktop doesn't look very different on other distributions.
So, here I have a GNOME desktop running and I'm going to install KDE on here.
So, the easiest way to do that is with "sudo yum install KDE".
Oh, I'm sorry, it's "groupinstall" [sudo yum groupinstall KDE].
Okay. You'll see there is quite a bit of stuff,
92 megabyte download with 274 megabytes of installed size,
but it goes pretty quickly.
Then, what I will have to do once this is finished installing, is log
out of the GNOME desktop and then log into the KDE desktop,
and then we'll play around a little bit, to see what's going on.
It's done with its installation essentially,
doing a little bit of setup and verification.
Fine. So, let's log out.
So, I go to the upper right corner,
I click on "student" and log out.
I'm still using the GDM login screen,
rather than the KDM, but that doesn't really matter for showing the desktop itself.
So I say, I give my password,
and then, here, next to the "Sign in",
there's a gear wheel where I can pick which I want to use, which desktop.
So, I'm picking KDE Plasma Workspace, and I sign in.
This is what a totally unconfigured,
basically, KDE desktop, would look like.
So, it is taking a little bit to start up,
a little bit of time because it's the first time we've run the KDE desktop.
If I click on the lower left corner here,
I get to see a number of basic menus that I can go to.
If I go to "Applications",
you see them organized by different qualities, under "Utilities", for instance.
I can see "Text Editor",
all sorts of things.
If I wanted to run, for instance,
a terminal window, I can right click on the desktop and pick Konsole,
and, by default, the fonts are a little bit not
very bright, but then I can just go ahead and configure to my heart's content.
If I look down on the lower right here, there's a calendar and the time,
if I click on that, I get a whole calendar.
Next to that, I get information about my networking,
the sound, here, okay, and I can control various things,
and here's the settings.
That's a clipboard, I'm sorry,
where I can cut and paste things into.
If I want to log out,
I go down to the icon on the lower left here, and then I just go to "Leave".
Then, here I can pick on "Log out" or "Shut down", let's say.
So, let's go all the way to the "Shut down",
and I'll turn off the computer.
Okay. So, that's what I wanted to show.
KDE and GNOME on CentOS.